Let us see what are the problems using pointers. Pointers are
Very dangerous when they are not used properly and due to pointers.
Systems may crash means of our software or our program may crash due to run tym error.
So at compile time we may not get the error but at run time we get the error, run time errors are
very dangerous reason is, when we
deliver our software to a client when the user is using a program, there he may face the
problem that during run time with the program crash it gives a bad name to a programmer. getting an error
at turn time at the user end is just like if a company is selling a car and the people are users are
complaining about the problems in the car.
So the car model will be failed and they have to take away that model from the market.
So the same thing happened with the software.
If our software is giving troubleto the user then the user will avoid using it.
So run time errors are very dangerous.
So we have to be careful with
those run time errors.
And one of the major reasons for which we get the run time errors is pointer. now let us see what could
be the possible problems using pointers.
What could be the type of error.
Let us see. see the first type of problem is un initialize pointers,  that's
un initialize pointers,  ptr
Second one is a pointer may cause memory leak and third type of problem
Problem is we may have dangling pointers.
These are the three commonly known problems.
Mostly these problems are caused due to the negligence of a programmer carelessness of a programmer.
Let us see the first one, un-initialize pointer.
Only if you have declared any type of pointer ,let me take integer
Only if I have declared a pointer Then I should not use that pointer unless I have initialize it.
Suppose I am saying star P assigned some value.
25,
So this means that I want to store value 25 where ever pointer is pointing.
But the question here is where the pointer is pointing it is not pointing anywhere.
Just I have declared.
Then what is the address in that one.
So some default garbage address may be there, some random address, that may belong to a program or
or may not belong to a problem. right
So it is a invalid address if you have not made a pointer to point on some particular location a known
location.
So first of all make it point on some location then you access it then how we can do that.
So there are three methods of doing it.
First method if you already have some variable say X then you can say P assign &X, I'll remove
this.
So now the pointer is pointing to this knowm variable which is already existing already declared.
So the pointer P is pointing there.
This is the first method.
So first method is pointer Is pointing to some variable which is already existing.
Then second method of initializing a pointer is, to a pointer
You can assign some address using some hexadecimal codes like 5 6 3 8, some adress i have given.
I have given but this address has to be typecast it as integer pointer. so can
we directly assign some address like this to pointer,  yes if we are sure
If we are sure that the address belong to the program so this type of initialization is also allowed
if required we can use this.
That's is not commonly used.
This is mostly used in systems programming, then third one, to this pointer  you should dynamically allocate
some memory and assign so and so I'm taking an Array of size 5.
If I don't write size five just I write int then it will allocate just one integer so either to an existing
variable,  or to the heap memory or the known address you must assign a pointer without  that you should
not use the point after this weather you store the value or read the value it's OK after any of these things.
If you say cout star P.
You will not get run time error, you will get the data.
If at that place the data is available.
So this was the first problem.
and in using uninitialize pointers, so some time programmers carelessly they don't initialize
and try to use it.
So as a programmer you don't do this mistake.
Now the second problem is memory leak.
This is related to a pointer as well as heap memory. heap memory,
as I already have discussed that when you are allocating heap memory.
Then when you don't require, you should de-allocate it. if you don't de-allocate it then we say that
that memory is a leaked from that total set of memory.
Then if you continue doing that you may run out of the memory.
So let us see this once again.
I have a point and I have declared heap memory.
allocate it heap memory of some size and I have used this memory then after some time I don't need
it.
So if I simply say P assigned null, then point P will not be pointing on that memory.
So suppose this is a array on which a pointer is assigning.
and now we have removed this pointer from there, null means
We have removed the pointer from there.
We should not do this unless we have explicitly deleted the memory so First of all say delete.
P then only, make P as null.
Now here is one more thing I have to tell you that you write P assign null or also you can write
P assign zero also or else you can write to P assign nullptr, see This means a zero only
And also you can write zero, but this is a literal buildin  literal in C++, like a keyword.
reserved word.
This is also zero.
But it is not a int value, it is address value.
So in modern C++ it is suggested you use nullPTR.
whenever you have to write null avoid using null.
So back to this memory leak, so the conclusion is you must delete the memory when you are not using it
before making a pointer that is null.
Now let us move to the third problem that is dangling pointer.
thi pointer i will show you one situation where this of problem may arise.
See I have a main function void main,  I'm writing here and inside this I have a pointer and to this I
have allocated heap memory, new int [5] then I have called one function to that function
I have send a pointer P.
Now this is function fun void function fun which is taking a pointer as a parameter, and this function
is using the memory then after that it is saying delete Q
now see the situation, main is having one pointer P which is pointing on some memory in heap. then this P
is given to Q,
Q is having a pointer in that function.
So that is also pointing on same memory then after some time, at end off a function it is a deleting
that memory so this memory is gone.
So who deleted that memory function fun using pointer Q which was  shared by main function. main function
has given this pointer to it.
Now when the control come back here.
inside the main function if you tried to access, access means I want to print some value assuming that
there is some value here 7, I want to print that one, star P, now P is pointing to a location which is
not existing the memory is dealoocated.
So actually this will cause an error, run time error, pointer is trying to access the memory which is no
more belonging to a program which is deallocated  now.
So this type of problems may also cause when you are trying to access the memory which is already
deallocated.
So this pointer P is now our dangling pointer that P is pointing on the location which is no more belonging
to program. so un-initialise pointers means, the pointer is never initialize, dangling pointer
means pointer was initialized but  just now memory is  de-allocated.
So we should avoid these three type of problems while writing programs or developing applications.
Actually these problems are caused due to negligence of biggner programmer,  experts
programmers may check all these things throughly only before delivering a program or before developing a
software.  but beginer programmer may do these type of mistakes so to make it simple for the programer
to avoid these type of dangerous errors java and DotNet has removed pointers and those languages
are manage languages so Jevian will take care of all these things it will trying to de-allocate
the memory when not in use and it will not allow dangling pointers to be access so they take care
in their own way.
So that's why those languages have called as manage languages, and they are much simpler than C++ but C++ gives
full control to the programmer No this is more powerful but the programmer must be careful while using
pointers. so I will give you a demo on this one so practically I will show this.